---
title: "Haaukins 🇬🇧"
layout: post
date: 2019-07-01 00:00
tag: 
- haaukins
- golang
- docker
- virtualbox
- security 
- education
- cyber
- browser
- virtualiazed
image: /assets/images/white480px.png
headerImage: true
projects: true
hidden: true # don't count this post in blog pagination
description: "Haaukins is a highly accessible and automated virtualization platform for security education"
category: project
author: mrturkmen
# externalLink: https://github.com/aau-network-security/haaukins
---

# Haaukins 💻⏰

It is a project which aims to give cyber security education to people who are interested in, the main idea is that having access to virtualized environment through browser and enabling all vulnerable systems over Docker containers or VMs (-sdepends on challenges-). 

To give an insight how it can be used, we can encounter following scenario; 

Imagine a situation where you have your own blog which is deployed to your own wordpress instance. Let's assume once that you have forgotten to update latest security vulnerability of wordpress by chance then it means that your website is vulnerable to attackers. In order to simulate this scenario in Haaukins environment, we are using Docker containers and installing vulnerable application (wordpress) on Docker in purpose and setting up an environment which has all security related tools along vulnerable system.

This way users will have chance to test real world scenario in completely harmless environment using provided Kali instance over web browser. Furthermore, there is no chance to access outside of virtualized network on Haaukins environment. 

Haaukins is using Go programming language heavily however challenges which are exists on Haaukins environment could be prepared in any programming language that you know. Since they are wrapped into Docker images, it is suitable to use any programming language to achieve the goal. 


## Main components ‼️

- __Docker__ : Heavily used for creating challenges which exists in Haaukins environment. Any CTF (Capture The Flag) challenge which packaged in Docker image is used  in Haaukins environment.  

- __Virtualbox__: It is used in challenges and for accessing the platform over browser. When the platform accessed through browser, any challenge which is in same network with the accessed instance can be seen and hacked. 

- __GoLang__ : Manages everything, from assigning teams to creating containers to running VMs for users. (Has monolith development approach, working on converting into somehow microservices)

- __VueJS__ : Used in frontend of Haaukins, which has web components which are used for each event that are generated through Haaukins Web Admin environment. 


## Other Connected Repos To Haaukins ⚠️


Haaukins is currently __NOT__ completely microservice oriented application or platform, however with recent changes, we are slowly moving into microservice architecture with pluggable services. 

- [Haaukins Store](https://github.com/aau-network-security/haaukins-store)
- [Haaukins Webclient](https://github.com/aau-network-security/haaukins-webclient)
- [Haaukins Challenges API](#WIP) __WIP__
- [Haaukins Virtual](#WIP) __WIP__


## More Info ℹ️

More information regarding to project and all related files are accessible from here: [https://docs.haaukins.com](https://docs.haaukins.com)


## Contact ✆

Any doubts, question, suggestion, idea or even just chat about it, you can reach me by either sending email to [hi@mrturkmen.com](mailto:hi@mrturkmen.com) or through my social accounts.  Do NOT hesitate to contact with me over Github as well 😉